[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In those days, I used to
work in these ice cream stores
and make milkshakes for
people, and scoop ice cream,
and put it into quarts
and half gallons,
and give them ice cream
cones, and so forth.
And they didn't know who I was.
And that was fine.
I just was a kid working
at the ice cream store,
as a lot of kids did.
As a matter of fact,
Barack Obama's first job
was as a clerk behind the
counter of a Baskin-Robbins
store.
A lot of people
have those memories.
Mine was a little different,
but I did the same thing.
In those days, in the
back wall, on the wall
were these huge photographs,
murals of sepia-toned pictures
of Guernsey dairy cows
grazing in beautiful Wisconsin
pastureland.
And I used to look at
those pictures a lot.
And I thought they
were beautiful.
And it made me feel good
about the dairy product
that we were using, along
with the sugar and flavors
to make the ice cream.
And I assumed that that's
how the cows lived, who
gave the milk we were using.
And that felt good to me.
I loved animals.
Then one day, I
went with my dad.
I don't recall exactly
why we were there.
But we went to a dairy from
which Baskin-Robbins sourced
a lot of its cream and milk.
And it was a huge dairy in the
Central Valley of California.
And it wasn't anything
like those photographs.
It was a feedlot.
And the cows were enclosed.
They're milked by machine.
There's a conveyor belt. There's
a ton of them in a small space.
And they're fenced in.
And I want to make contact
with one of these cows.
I'm kind of shocked
by what I'm seeing.
But I want to make contact.
So I approach the fence.
There's a cow, I make
eye contact with it,
and I moved towards it.
I'm probably 14, 13 or 14.
I'm a boy.
And I mean well.
I want to say hello to the cow.
Maybe stroke it, pet it, maybe
make contact, I don't know.
And as I approach it,
it gets frightened.
And it jumps away.
And then I approach
a different cow.
Same thing.
These cows are afraid
of human contact.
They're afraid of
human presence.
Even a small boy
who's got nothing
but love in his heart
for them, doesn't
mean them ill in any
way, they're terrified.
And I think what has
happened in their lives?
These placid animals,
these sweet animals,
what has happened
in their lives?
What kind of human
experience have they
had that they're afraid
of a little boy coming
to say hello to them?
It must have been
pretty darn bad.
And I saw them standing in
their own manure, some of them
almost up to their knees in it.
There were flies
all over the place.
And these fly strips
that were full of poisons
to try and deal with them,
which weren't very effective,
but they were there.
I heard about the use
of hormones and drugs
to try to deal with some of
these problems, which arise
from the confinement of cows.
If they're on a pasture,
like the photographs showed,
you don't have those problems.
But they had them in a
feedlot, and I was shocked.
And I was like, those
photos aren't real.
And on the drive back,
I said to my dad,
this isn't anything
like the photographs
that are on the back
wall of all the stores.
And he said, well,
no, no, it isn't.
And I said, well, does
that bother you at all?
No, why should it?
I didn't know how to
talk about it with him.
And later in my life, fast
forward a number of years,
and I've now written
the books I have--
and I've become a spokesperson
for the humane treatment
of animals in meat
and dairy production.
And the California Milk
Producers Association
creates an advertising campaign
nationwide, maybe worldwide.
I don't even know that.
Great cheese comes
from happy cows.
Happy cows come from California.
And they had
pictures in their ads
of cows grazing in
beautiful pastures,
trying to sell California
cheese to other states
and other countries.
And it was a
successful ad campaign,
successful in their terms.
They made a lot of money.
It increased the sale
of California cheese.
Except there was no truth in it.
And I even found that
the photographs they used
of cows grazing were taken
in Auckland, New Zealand.
Because they couldn't
find an example
in California of what
they were trying to say
is the state of
cows in California.
There were no happy cows in
California in those days,
and there aren't now.
There may be a few
individual cows,
someone's got a cow or two on
their back acres or whatever.
But as far as
industrial production,
commercial production,
no, it's all
gone in the direction of
factory farming and feedlots.
And the industry
continues to lie about it.
Happy cows come from
California, they said.
And they show these
pictures of beautiful cows
and beautiful pastures.
The truth is, the cows in
California are in dry lots.
They're not in pasture.
Many of them never see a blade
of grass in their entire lives.
And I, along with
several animal rights
organizations, sued the
California Milk Producers
Association for false
advertising about this.
And it's still working
its way in the courts.
They were able to
say it's free speech,
and it was protected
by the Constitution.
And our attorneys said
it's commercial speech.
They were able to obfuscate
that distinction in court.
It's a difficult thing to win.
It seems to me, though, that
it's just outright lying.
It may be that great cheese
comes from happy cows.
I'll give you that.
But the tagline happy cows come
from California isn't true.
And people have a right to know
how their food is produced.
People have a right
to know if they're
going to drink milk, if
they're going to eat ice cream,
if they're going to eat meat,
if they're going to eat eggs,
how those products, how
the animals involved lived.
And if drugs were used,
if antibiotics were used,
if hormones were used, if
other chemicals were used,
they have a right to know that.
And if those animals
lived miserable lives
and were confined
so cruelly, people
have a right to know that too.
The industry does not
want people to know.
I think my early
experiences with Licorice
gave me an undying awareness
that our relationship
to other animals matters.
They're not just things.
They can care about us.
We can care about them.
And we should.
I'm not arguing that nobody
should ever eat meat,
everybody should be a vegan.
I am arguing that
people have a right
to know how their
food is produced.
And I do think that
the more people
see the cruelty, the abominable
cruelty that is involved
in industrial meat, dairy,
and egg production today,
the more they'll rebel.
You don't have to
be a vegetarian.
If you see it-- you don't have
to be an animal rights activist.
You don't have to be a
particularly empathic
human being, if you see
how cruel it's become,
to want to say no to it, to
not want misery on your menu,
to not want to participate,
and take into your body,
and fuel your body with the
products of a system that
treats animals with
that degree of contempt.
Anybody who has any love for
animals, any feeling for animals
at all, it's shocking
and appalling to see
the degree of cruelty
that's become normalized
in industrial meat production.
If you actually confront what
is happening to these animals
by the millions
every day, how severe
it is, how deeply they're
tortured by the conditions
in which they're kept.
And I want people to know.
I want them to have the
opportunity to know.
I knew some people
would turn away.
I knew some people couldn't
handle the pain of it.
I knew some people
wouldn't want to know.
But I thought if I
presented this in a way
with as much
compassion as possible,
there was a chance that people
might open their eyes to it.
And I thought, if people do see
it, they'll turn away from it.
And I don't mean turn away
not wanting to see it.
They'll turn away
from eating it,
from using their money
to buy these products.
And therefore-- every time
you buy a product like this,
the producer sees your purchase
as a signal, do it again.
Make more of this.
Do the same thing more.
Because they're
profiting from it.
So if we withdraw our support
economically from this system,
the system will atrophy.
As the demand goes,
the supply will drop.
And that's what I was
hoping to see happen.
I often thought if you're
going to smoke tobacco,
if you're addicted,
how can you do
that in a way that doesn't
give your money to the tobacco
companies?
Is there a way to do that?
I mean, everybody knows that
smoking is bad for your health.
But if somebody is addicted,
is there a way to do it?
I'm always thinking, if
someone needs to eat meat,
if they're addicted or
they feel they need some,
is there a way to do
it that isn't feeding,
isn't giving your money to
these industrial factory farm
systems that treat animals
with absolute disdain
for their basic
needs, coop them up
in conditions that are obscene?
And nobody wants
misery on their menu.
Nobody wants to eat that stuff,
if they know how it's produced.